Criterion A: Initial consultation
---------------------------------

ITGS- data collection

How the present system works:

By observation I found that the sales of the day are recorded in a book. When
the customer comes, he/she is asked what they want. The stock is then checked
for the item and for the quantity in which it is needed. If the item is
available, the shopkeeper calculates the amount of money he will have to take
from the customer. The customer then gives the money. The shopkeeper calculates
how much money has to be returned back. The amount is returned. The customer is
given the product.

Interview:

Me: how is the current system useful to you?

Client: it helps in keeping accounts and for stock maintenance.

Me: how are the accounts done? Is it performed every day?

Client: yes, it is done every day. When the book of records is returned to me at
night, I calculate the total counter for the day; also the money is counted at
night.

Me: How is the inventory maintained?

Client: A person has to count or estimate the number of each product that is
remaining at the end. A number is estimated for each product that has to be
purchased. The ordering number for each product changes according to the days of
the week. More stock has to be ordered on Saturday as the stock is not supplied
on Sundays and also there are more crowds on certain days of the week than the
others. Always the number of products to be ordered depends on the time of the
year, like certain products are sold more than the others depending on the
season and the festivals.

Me: Why do you want a new system?

Client: Not perfect stock maintenance happens also the stock present has to be
counted manually everyday to order the stock for the next day, which is very
inconvenient. Also there is inaccuracy in the account. Many times the value in
the book (in which daily sales are written) total there are differences for e.g.
the amount written in the book is different from amount present in the counter.
Person (worker) forgets to feed in stuff.

Me: Are the workers at the shop good at using a computer?

Client: No they have not even used a computer earlier and so the system should
be extremely easy to use as has it has to be used by people who never use a
computer.

Me: Are the users comfortable with English?

Client: Yes, both my workers know how to read and write in English.

Me: And the person who does the account? I he/she comfortable with using a
computer for purposes such as opening database files and surfing through tables?

Client: Yes, I do the accounts daily and I can manage using a computer for the
purpose you stated.

Me: according to me the barcode on the products can be used to record the data
about the products. Is it suitable to you?

Client: yes, I do not mind much till my requirements are fulfilled.

Me: Do you have regular customers? Would you like to save their contact details?

Client: Yes I have many daily customers and this is also a major issue! I need
to save their data safely and somewhere easy to find. Also, it would be very
convenient if I find all the records on one place

From the above interview with my client I get to know that the system should
have the following features:

The system has to be used for stock maintenance and accounts. The system should
follow the following order for transaction. It should first display the items,
when one is chosen, it should show the availability, if the product is available
in the quantity wanted, there should be an option to update the stock once the
product is sold.

For the inventory maintenance: the system should be able to record and present
the number of products remaining at the end of the day. The reorder number
should vary according to the day, season and festival.

The system should be able to show the number of products remaining. The system
should be extremely user friendly and basic to use as the users are not computer
users. The system should also be very fast in operation so the users donâ€™t have
to wait for recording. The users will not have to postpone their recording due
to the speed of their work and so there will be no issue of them forgetting to
record it later. The client is ready to use a barcode or any other device if it
solves the problems.
